README.md, before:

# Chipmunk (version that includes support for Tofino code generation)

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/atsuojrqo000bku4/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/anirudhSK/chipmunk/branch/master)

## Installation
- Install [sketch](https://people.csail.mit.edu/asolar/sketch-1.7.5.tar.gz)
- `pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt -e . && pre-commit install` (if you want to make changes to
  this repo),
- `pip3 install .` (if you want to simply use chipmunk.).
- Add sudo if you want to install system wide.

## How to

### Develop

If you have installed it as above, first re-install via following command.

```shell
pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt -e .
pre-commit install
```
Note that there is `-e` in install command. It will install this package in
development mode, and simply link actual chipc directory to your Python's
site-packages directory.

1. Make changes to python code
2. Consider implementing tests and run tests `python3 -m unittest`
3. Run your desired binary like `python chipc/chipmunk.py ...`

This way you don't have to keep installing and uninstalling whenever you make a
change and test. However, still you have to run via `python3 chipc/chipmunk.py`
instead of using the installed binary.

Also consider using [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html),
[virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) or
[pipenv](https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to create an isolated Python
development environment.

### Iterative solver
```shell
iterative_solver example_specs/simple.sk example_alus/stateful_alus/raw.alu example_alus/stateless_alus/stateless_alu.alu 2 2 "0,1,2,3" 10 --hole-elimination
```

```shell
iterative_solver example_specs/simple.sk example_alus/stateful_alus/raw.alu example_alus/stateless_alus/stateless_alu.alu 2 2 "0,1,2,3" 10 --parallel --parallel-sketch --hole-elimination
```

### Test

Run:

```shell
python3 -m unittest
```

If you want to add a test, add a new file in [tests](tests/) directory or add
test cases in existing `test_*.py` file.

Commit message:

Slicing algo and other changes from public Chipmunk repo (#21)
* Try using GitHub actions for CI. (#195)

* Create pythonapp.yml

Try using GitHub actions for CI

* Update pythonapp.yml

* Temporarily remove parallel mode because of picking error.

* Use python3 -m unittest instead of pyttest in pythonapp.yml.

* Coalesce everything into one step.

* Remove two failing tests.

* Revert "Remove two failing tests." by changing Python version to 3.5.4

Looks related to https://github.com/chipmunk-project/chipmunk/issues/72
This reverts commit aaad54047ba5d7a8d81e4f2d0b17f4bc3134eff1.

* Go back to 3.7 and removing the two failed tests.

GitHub Actions doesn't seem to support 3.5.4 (https://github.com/chipmunk-project/chipmunk/commit/b652bc4886d67a31261d1ce48fa0b220b17a07d0/checks?check_suite_id=382581811)

* Test only whether counterexamples are generated not their actual values.  (#198)

* Test only existence of counterexamples, not actual values.

* Explicitly test emptiness.

* Merge changes from the private repo. (#199)

Co-authored-by: XiangyuG <39160477+XiangyuG@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update README on how to test.  (#200)

* Update README regarding antlr.

* Be more specific on what you need to do to test.

* Add explanation for -e.

Co-authored-by: XiangyuG <39160477+XiangyuG@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add slicing algo (#201)

* Add state_groups_to_check as a parameter passed from cmd line

* Pass input packet fields from cmd line

* Add slicing assert for counterexample

* Add more test cases for slicing

* Rename some variables

* Add more comments to generate_counterexample_asserts func

* Elaborate on --input-packet argument

* Use a better way to get the size of each state_group

* Elaborate on --input-packet argument

Co-authored-by: Anirudh Sivaraman <sk.anirudh@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Taegyun Kim <k.taegyun@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Chipmunk (version that includes support for Tofino code generation)

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/atsuojrqo000bku4/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/anirudhSK/chipmunk/branch/master)

## Installation
- Install [sketch](https://people.csail.mit.edu/asolar/sketch-1.7.5.tar.gz)
- Install Java. This repo uses [antlr](https://www.antlr.org/) to generate
  parser and lexer.
- `pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt -e . && pre-commit install` (if you want to make changes to
  this repo),
- `pip3 install .` (if you want to simply use chipmunk.).
- Add sudo if you want to install system wide.

## How to

### Develop

If you have installed it as above, first re-install via following command.

```shell
pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt -e .
pre-commit install
```
Note that there is `-e` in install command. It will install this package in
development mode, and simply link actual chipc directory to your Python's
site-packages directory.

1. Make changes to python code
2. Consider implementing tests and run tests `python3 -m unittest`
3. Run your desired binary like `python chipc/chipmunk.py ...`

This way you don't have to keep installing and uninstalling whenever you make a
change and test. However, still you have to run via `python3 chipc/chipmunk.py`
instead of using the installed binary.

Also consider using [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html),
[virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) or
[pipenv](https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to create an isolated Python
development environment.

### Iterative solver
```shell
iterative_solver example_specs/simple.sk example_alus/stateful_alus/raw.alu example_alus/stateless_alus/stateless_alu.alu 2 2 "0,1,2,3" 10 --hole-elimination
```

```shell
iterative_solver example_specs/simple.sk example_alus/stateful_alus/raw.alu example_alus/stateless_alus/stateless_alu.alu 2 2 "0,1,2,3" 10 --parallel --parallel-sketch --hole-elimination
```

### Test

Run:

You need to run setup in editable mode (with -e) to generate lexer and parser
in this directory.
```shell
pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt -e .
python3 -m unittest
```

If you want to add a test, add a new file in [tests](tests/) directory or add
test cases in existing `test_*.py` file.
